[CLOUDCRAFT-438] Find Cloud Account or Team ID using our API (#22596)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/cloudcraft/advanced/find-id-using-api.md

---

> title: Find Cloud Account or Team ID using our API

Author: Leaving the "our" in there to keep consistent with other article titles from Cloudcraft. Adding the "a".

kind: guide
---

## Overview

Currently, the Cloudcraft UI doesn't expose the ID of your AWS or Azure accounts or teams. However, you can still find these IDs using our API and a bit of manual work.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, make sure you have the following:

- A Cloudcraft user with the [Owner or Administrator role][1].
- An active [Cloudcraft Pro subscription][2].
- A Unix-like environment, such as Linux, macOS, or WSL on Windows with cURL and [jq][3] installed.
- A basic understanding of the command-line interface.
- A basic understanding of how to use APIs.

> You must also have at least one AWS or Azure account added to Cloudcraft.

Reviewer: Is this really necessary?

Author: We have added it in previous articles of this nature, so I thought it made sense to include here too.

## Finding the cloud account ID

Finding the ID of your AWS or Azure account is easy; you can do it by making a single API call.

To find the ID of your cloud account, run the following command:

{{< code-block lang="shell" >}}
curl \

>   --url 'https://api.cloudcraft.co/${CLOUD}/account' \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  --url 'https://api.cloudcraft.co/<CLOUD_PROVIDER>/account' \
```

Author: Using "PROVIDER" to keep things consistent with other Cloudcraft articles.

  --tlsv1.2 \
  --proto '=https' \
  --compressed \
  --silent \

>   --header "Authorization: Bearer ${API_KEY}" | jq .

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  --header "Authorization: Bearer <API_KEY>" | jq .
```

{{< /code-block >}}

> Replace `CLOUD` with `aws` or `azure` and `API_KEY` with your Cloudcraft API key.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Replace `CLOUD_PROVIDER` with `aws` or `azure` and `API_KEY` with your Cloudcraft API key.
```

> The response should look something like this for AWS:

Reviewer: Please make sure the values used in here arns, externalIds, application Id etc are dummy or mimic the ones used in our API documentation

Author: They are all dummy values I generated when writing the article.

{{< code-block lang="json" filename="cloudcraft-aws-response.json" >}}
{
  "accounts": [
    {

>       "id": "8bfc6773-7fa2-49b3-8016-5e0e9a2e2aff",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      "id": "8bfc6773-7fa2-49b3-8016-5e0e9a2e2aff",
```
If these IDs are sensitive at all (I'm assuming they're not), can also just use `<CLOUD_ACCOUNT_ID>` instead of the actual ID here. The same goes for `externalId`.

Author: Those are randomly generated.

      "name": "Development",
      "roleArn": "arn:aws:iam::600111810075:role/cloudcraft",
      "externalId": "93cf2e38-742a-4321-bcee-1d8b8fe35b8b",
      "readAccess": null,
      "writeAccess": null,
      "createdAt": "2024-02-21T15:19:26.232Z",
      "updatedAt": "2024-02-21T15:19:26.701Z",

>       "CreatorId": "f179a0f9-ebf6-4a6a-afd8-74d608498a1f",

Reviewer 2: Just wanted to verify that `CreatorId` should be capped here and in the other examples?

Author: It should, yes :)

      "source": "aws"
    }
  ]
}
{{< /code-block >}}

And something like this for Azure:

{{< code-block lang="json" filename="cloudcraft-azure-response.json" >}}
{
  "accounts": [
    {
      "id": "e18da22b-330d-4091-bb57-c46654df5351",
      "name": "Development",
      "applicationId": "598c6f24-c2e2-4870-88bd-d42fe6f5c998",
      "directoryId": "c6444a86-1cfe-4312-add5-61e2c140648b",
      "subscriptionId": "74efa8fe-0997-49b0-963d-ea88bf80fe11",
      "readAccess": null,
      "writeAccess": null,
      "createdAt": "2023-11-20T22:11:43.688Z",
      "updatedAt": "2023-11-20T22:11:43.688Z",
      "CreatorId": "2d95eeb8-7161-48f8-88e4-8f0d6bb7b47f",
      "hint": "9NP",
      "source": "azure"
    }
  ]
}
{{< /code-block >}}

The `id` field contains the ID of your cloud account.

## Finding the team ID

> Finding the ID of your team is a bit more complicated because Cloudcraft doesn't expose the team ID in the UI or through a simple API call. However, you can still find the team ID by using the Cloudcraft UI in combination with the API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Cloudcraft doesn't expose the team ID in the UI or through a simple API call. However, you can still find the team ID by using the Cloudcraft UI in combination with the API.
```
Just making sure the section works independently of the above section.

To find the ID of your team, follow these steps:

1. Open the Cloudcraft UI and create a new empty blueprint.
2. Click the **Share & Export** button in the top-right corner.

> 3. Where it says **Share with a team...**, click the field and select the team or teams you want to get the ID for.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Under **Share with a team...**, click the field and select the team or teams you want to get the ID for.
```
Or "Next to"?

{{< img src="cloudcraft/advanced/find-id-using-api/share-with-team.mp4" alt="A quick video showing a Cloudcraft user selecting the Datadog and Cloudcraft teams from the Share & Export menu." video="true">}}

4. Copy the ID of the blueprint from the URL. The ID is the part of the URL that comes after `blueprint/`.

5. Switch to the terminal and run the following command:

{{< code-block lang="shell" >}}
curl \

>   --url 'https://api.cloudcraft.co/blueprint/${ID}' \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  --url 'https://api.cloudcraft.co/blueprint/<ID>' \
```

  --tlsv1.2 \
  --proto '=https' \
  --compressed \
  --silent \

>   --header "Authorization: Bearer ${API_KEY}" | jq '.readAccess'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  --header "Authorization: Bearer <API_KEY>" | jq '.readAccess'
```
